README.md, before:

# SLM: Structural Language Models of Code
This is an official implementation of the model described in:

"Structural Language Models of Code" [[PDF]](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1910.00577.pdf)

To appear in ICML'2020.

An **online demo** is available at [https://AnyCodeGen.org](https://AnyCodeGen.org).

This repository currently contains the dataset and the data extractor that we used to create the Java dataset in the paper.
The TensorFlow code will be released soon.


Feel free to open a [new issue](https://github.com/tech-srl/slm-code-generation/issues/new) 
for any question. We always respond quickly.

<center style="padding: 40px"><img width="70%" src="https://github.com/tech-srl/slm-code-generation/raw/master/images/fig1.png" /></center>
<center style="padding: 40px"><img width="70%" src="https://github.com/tech-srl/slm-code-generation/raw/master/images/fig2.png" /></center>


Table of Contents
=================
  * [Requirements](#requirements)
  * [Download our preprocessd dataset](#download-our-preprocessed-java-small-dataset)
  * [Creating a new dataset](#creating-and-preprocessing-a-new-java-dataset)
  * [Datasets](#datasets)
  * [Citation](#citation)

## Requirements
  * [python3](https://www.linuxbabe.com/ubuntu/install-python-3-6-ubuntu-16-04-16-10-17-04) 
  * TensorFlow 1.13 or newer ([install](https://www.tensorflow.org/install/install_linux)). To check TensorFlow version:
> python3 -c 'import tensorflow as tf; print(tf.\_\_version\_\_)'
  * For [creating a new Java dataset](#creating-and-preprocessing-a-new-java-dataset): [JDK 12](https://openjdk.java.net/install/)



## Download our preprocessed Java-small dataset 
This dataset contains ~1.3M examples (1.1GB).
```
mkdir data
cd data
wget https://codegen-slm.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/data/java-small-preprocessed.tar.gz
tar -xvzf java-small-preprocessed.tar.gz
```
This will create a `data/java-small/` sub-directory, containing the files that hold training, test and validation sets,
a dict file for various dataset properties and histograms, and a grammar file that is used during beam search to 
distinguish between terminal and non-terminal nodes.

## Creating and preprocessing a new Java dataset
To create and preprocess a new dataset (for example, to compare SLM to a new model on another dataset):
  * Edit the file [preprocess.sh](preprocess.sh) using the instructions there, pointing it to the correct training, validation and test directories.
  * Run the preprocess.sh file:
> bash preprocess.sh

## Datasets
### Java
To download the Java-small as raw `*.java` files, use:

  * [Java-small](https://s3.amazonaws.com/code2seq/datasets/java-small.tar.gz)
  
To download the preprocessed dataset, use:
  * [Java-small-preprocessed](https://codegen-slm.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/data/java-small-preprocessed.tar.gz)

To download the dataset in a tokenized format that can be used in seq2seq models (for example, with [OpenNMT-py](http://opennmt.net/OpenNMT-py/)), use:
  * [Java-small-seq2seq](https://codegen-slm.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/data/java-seq2seq-data.tar.gz)
  
The following JSON files are the files that are created by the JavaExtractor. 
The preprocessed and the seq2seq files
are created from these JSON files:
  * [Java-small-json](https://codegen-slm.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/data/java-small-json.tar.gz)

Every line is a JSON object
that contains the following fields: `num_targets`, `num_nodes`, `targets`, 
`is_token`, `target_child_id`, `internal_paths`, `relative_paths`, `head_paths`, 
`head_root_path`, `head_child_id`, `linearized_tree`, `filepath`, `left_context`, 
`right_context`, `target_seq`, `line`.



### C#
The C# dataset that we used in the paper was created using the raw (`*.cs` files) dataset of
 [Allamanis et al., 2018](https://miltos.allamanis.com/publications/2018learning/),
 (https://aka.ms/iclr18-prog-graphs-dataset) and can be found here: [https://aka.ms/iclr18-prog-graphs-dataset](https://aka.ms/iclr18-prog-graphs-dataset).

To extract examples from the C# files, we modified the data extraction code of 
Brockschmidt et al., 2019: [https://github.com/microsoft/graph-based-code-modelling/](https://github.com/microsoft/graph-based-code-modelling/).

## Citation 

[Structural Language Models of Code](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1910.00577.pdf)

```
@article{alon2019structural,
  title={Structural Language Models of Code},
  author={Alon, Uri and Sadaka, Roy and Levy, Omer and Yahav, Eran},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.00577},
  year={2019}
}
```

Commit message:

Update README, adding trained model API

README.md, after:

# SLM: Structural Language Models of Code
This is an official implementation of the model described in:

"Structural Language Models of Code" [[PDF]](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1910.00577.pdf)

To appear in ICML'2020.

An **online demo** is available at [https://AnyCodeGen.org](https://AnyCodeGen.org).

This repository currently contains the dataset and the data extractor that we used to create the Java dataset in the paper.
The TensorFlow code will be released soon.


Feel free to open a [new issue](https://github.com/tech-srl/slm-code-generation/issues/new) 
for any question. We always respond quickly.

<center style="padding: 40px"><img width="70%" src="https://github.com/tech-srl/slm-code-generation/raw/master/images/fig1.png" /></center>
<center style="padding: 40px"><img width="70%" src="https://github.com/tech-srl/slm-code-generation/raw/master/images/fig2.png" /></center>


Table of Contents
=================
  * [Requirements](#requirements)
  * [Download our preprocessd dataset](#download-our-preprocessed-java-small-dataset)
  * [Creating a new dataset](#creating-and-preprocessing-a-new-java-dataset)
  * [Datasets](#datasets)
  * [Querying the trained model](#querying-the-trained-model)
  * [Citation](#citation)

## Requirements
  * [python3](https://www.linuxbabe.com/ubuntu/install-python-3-6-ubuntu-16-04-16-10-17-04) 
  * TensorFlow 1.13 or newer ([install](https://www.tensorflow.org/install/install_linux)). To check TensorFlow version:
> python3 -c 'import tensorflow as tf; print(tf.\_\_version\_\_)'
  * For [creating a new Java dataset](#creating-and-preprocessing-a-new-java-dataset): [JDK 12](https://openjdk.java.net/install/)



## Download our preprocessed Java-small dataset 
This dataset contains ~1.3M examples (1.1GB).
```
mkdir data
cd data
wget https://codegen-slm.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/data/java-small-preprocessed.tar.gz
tar -xvzf java-small-preprocessed.tar.gz
```
This will create a `data/java-small/` sub-directory, containing the files that hold training, test and validation sets,
a dict file for various dataset properties and histograms, and a grammar file that is used during beam search to 
distinguish between terminal and non-terminal nodes.

## Creating and preprocessing a new Java dataset
To create and preprocess a new dataset (for example, to compare SLM to a new model on another dataset):
  * Edit the file [preprocess.sh](preprocess.sh) using the instructions there, pointing it to the correct training, validation and test directories.
  * Run the preprocess.sh file:
> bash preprocess.sh

## Datasets
### Java
To download the Java-small as raw `*.java` files, use:

  * [Java-small](https://s3.amazonaws.com/code2seq/datasets/java-small.tar.gz)
  
To download the preprocessed dataset, use:
  * [Java-small-preprocessed](https://codegen-slm.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/data/java-small-preprocessed.tar.gz)

To download the dataset in a tokenized format that can be used in seq2seq models (for example, with [OpenNMT-py](http://opennmt.net/OpenNMT-py/)), use:
  * [Java-small-seq2seq](https://codegen-slm.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/data/java-seq2seq-data.tar.gz)
  
The following JSON files are the files that are created by the JavaExtractor. 
The preprocessed and the seq2seq files
are created from these JSON files:
  * [Java-small-json](https://codegen-slm.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/data/java-small-json.tar.gz)

Every line is a JSON object
that contains the following fields: `num_targets`, `num_nodes`, `targets`, 
`is_token`, `target_child_id`, `internal_paths`, `relative_paths`, `head_paths`, 
`head_root_path`, `head_child_id`, `linearized_tree`, `filepath`, `left_context`, 
`right_context`, `target_seq`, `line`.



### C#
The C# dataset that we used in the paper was created using the raw (`*.cs` files) dataset of
 [Allamanis et al., 2018](https://miltos.allamanis.com/publications/2018learning/),
 (https://aka.ms/iclr18-prog-graphs-dataset) and can be found here: [https://aka.ms/iclr18-prog-graphs-dataset](https://aka.ms/iclr18-prog-graphs-dataset).

To extract examples from the C# files, we modified the data extraction code of 
Brockschmidt et al., 2019: [https://github.com/microsoft/graph-based-code-modelling/](https://github.com/microsoft/graph-based-code-modelling/).

## Querying the Trained Model
To query the trained model, use the following API, where `MYCODE` is the given code snippet, that includes two question marks (`??`) to mark the "hole" that should be completed:
```
curl -X POST https://w0w3uc4a63.execute-api.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/prod/predict -d '{"code": "MYCODE"}'
```

For example:

```
curl -X POST https://w0w3uc4a63.execute-api.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/prod/predict -d '{"code": "public static Path[] stat2Paths(FileStatus[] stats) {  if (stats == null) return null;  Path[] ret = new Path[stats.length]; for (int i = 0; i < stats.length; ++i) { ret[i] = ??; } return ret; }"}'
```

## Citation 

[Structural Language Models of Code](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1910.00577.pdf)

```
@article{alon2019structural,
  title={Structural Language Models of Code},
  author={Alon, Uri and Sadaka, Roy and Levy, Omer and Yahav, Eran},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.00577},
  year={2019}
}
```
